many albatross chicks are just too weak
to make it to adulthood to find out why
you need to look at what the parents are
unwittingly feeding moment my science
class was given these bonuses of lease
on albatrosses to to dissect and the
bolus is basically what the albatross
regurgitates what we found was very
little of the stomach contents was was
actually what they normally eat their
regular diet
most of what we found in each albatross
bolus was was marine debris plastic
lighters floaters fishing lures even
little plastic toys what my kids began
to express to me was basically how the
heck how did these foreign objects get
into the stomach of this this albatross
yeah please an albatross assume that
anything floating on the ocean surface
is edible for millions of years this has
been a fair assumption
but today in some parts of the Pacific
there is more plastic than food the
entire Pacific Ocean is circulating this
debris so there are many billions of
particles circulating in this
never-ending spiral that you know may
never touch land I will just constantly
be in the ocean until they're degraded
to the point where they either sink to
the bottom or they become ingested by
some creature
in nature albatross chicks typically die
from either starvation or dehydration
and that's kind of the way it's always
been
plastics help this process along by
taking up room in their stomachs that
would normally be reserved for food and
water so when you have an albatross
chick that's got half the stomach full
of plastic that's half the stomach that
can't be used so as you kind of walk
around this nesting colony all that you
really see left are just the dead ones
and you can see in the dead ones that
have been left here for a while they've
started to decay and inside those you
can see a lot of the plastics that have
been left behind
you